---
layout: post
category : narratives
tags : [narratives,anonymous]
title: Helping out in a crisis (anonymous spectator)
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I wanted to post something detailed so you could read what it was like to actually be there and so I could also have a semi-detailed record of the events and my thoughts.

I was standing on Boylston St with my mother right up against the fence, on the south side (I believe - It was the opposite side of the street from the explosions).  I was tracking a friend's progress and at 14:38 she passed the 40K mark (A little more than 1 mile from where I was standing).  I pulled out my cellphone and waited to take a picture of her as she ran past just a few blocks before the finish line.  I'm sure she was much more excited than I was to make it that far.  It was still very moving to me to be able to witness someone I have such respect for accomplish such an amazing feat.

As I was anxiously waiting to see her come into view, a loud explosion occurred which was accompanied by a massive plume of smoke.  This was right around 14:50 and about 50-60 yards from where I was standing.  My first thought was that it was some sort of celebration (a cannon perhaps?) until I turned and saw the amount of smoke.  At that time I turned to my mother and tried to shove her into a building, telling her that the explosion was on the streets, when the second explosion detonated right across from us.  I wasn't more than 50-100 feet away from this explosion.  We started running west up the street a little ways and I threw my mother and a few girls that were running by into the open doors in the building behind us.  After telling my mom to stay and not to follow me I took off down the street towards the first explosion.  

I ripped off my flannel shirt and got ready to use it to cover wounds if I needed to - or to keep any victims warm.  People were franticly running in every direction, confused and concerned about the safety of the streets and surrounding buildings.  I helped a few police officers move fences that were knocked down during the confusion and reposition a few as well.  I remember stepping on one while I was running and the noise of the metal hitting the sidewalk startled me.  When I reached the first explosion site, I was met with uncoordinated mass hysteria.  Most people were trying to help out in any possible way that they could much like I was.  As a former EMT and someone with extensive training in mass casualty incidents, along with being a self-aid buddy-care instructor in the Air Force (combat first aid), I knew I couldn't just sit around.  I approached one man holding what looked like a headband as a tourniquet on a spectators amputated leg in the middle of the street.  I quickly took off my belt and wrapped it around the leg and directed the person to hold that tight with the headband.

I turned to look for anyone else who needed help, and approached a group of people tending to a child.  At this point a police officer told me no one was allowed back up the street which I just ran down and left my mother behind on.  I remember walking up one of the side streets, ring road, and into a hotel door. It was at this time I realized my phone's battery was about to die, and that I just ran away from my mother who was panicking, and probably concerned as to where I was. I was fortunate enough to get a phone call through as I opened any and every door in the hotel to eventually find myself at the loading dock at the other side.  The smell of gunpowder still filled the air, the streets were covered in blood, and every time an ambulance would shut a door people would jump in freight.

I saw my mother standing in the street, angering me after telling her to stay inside.  She was in front of two wounded individuals, one a middle aged man, and one young child suffering a traumatic amputation.  I tried yelling to her but it was worthless among the screams.  I tried to make my way to her but a security guard, I believe from the prudential center, was trying to help the officers move traffic back west to Mass Ave. It took him yelling at me about 5 times on repeat, "you gotta go the other way," before he finally listened to my counter, "Turn around, look at the woman in the white coat 15 feet behind you, and let me get my mother who is waiting for me."  I was able to grab her and as we made our way to Mass Ave, an army of Boston Police Department officers made their way down the street screaming "EVERYONE GO. RUN. GET OUT OF HERE NOW." This caused a little bit more panic and stress.  I was a little upset about this at first but I can't blame them.  You can train for these situations as much as you want but until you have to do it for real you don't know how you will respond.  I witnessed one older woman in a wheelchair, retreating with her family, get up from the wheelchair and start pushing it as quickly as she could.  She REFUSED to get back in it and slow down the rest of her family even though they were all shouting through tears to do so.

It wasn't until we made it back to Mass Ave and started heading towards Huntington Ave that I was fully able to remember some of the details of these events.  It was like I was on autopilot and overdrive.  When I replay what happened in my head, although it was still daylight outside, I see mainly blues and grays.  It's like I was running around with a sepia filter in front of my eyes but it was a dark blue instead of that brown hue.  I called a few friends I knew were in the area, like Adam, and kept on going.  I also sent a text message to my friend who was running asking her to let me know she was okay.  My phone died a few minutes later and I couldn't get in touch with her.  I sat in a Boston Market for quite some time just letting things sink in and replaying the events back in my head before making my way to the CVS next door to buy a phone charger.  I was able to get in touch with her cousin who told me her and their family were all okay.

As I walked to the only open outbound train station, Fenway, I ran into many other people doing the same with the loud hovering of a helicopter just over our heads.  Looking up I noticed an American Flag hanging from a Crane at a construction site just a few blocks from the scene.  I was then crossed by many drunks leaving Fenway who seemed to be clueless as to the events that just occurred and I felt so bad for them at first, and then some what envious, for all was still happy in their minds.  

I'm glad everyone I care about was okay.  I'm distraught that innocent young children, adolescents, and adults had suffered so many injuries.  I'm angry someone feels this is acceptable.  I wish there was more I could do.
